---
layout: post
title: The Materiality of Incense
---

Incense is described as an “aromatic biotic material that releases fragmented smoke upon burning it”. Simply, incense is made up of ingredients derived from Earth and produces a pleasant, cleanly scent, one in which you can choose for yourself. Many cultures have implemented incense into their daily lives, rituals, and religions. It is an object that has no stagnant state and has changed, functionally and methodically, overtime. The history/conceptualization of incense, its materiality, and its uses in specific cultural/religious context is to be further discussed . 

Incense has a long history of trade, ritual practices, and cultural meaning. The origins of incense differ culturally, as it was formed and used distinctively on a cultural basis. Historically, incense was traded through multiple regions, primarily the global south. Peacock does a great job of detailing the ancient South Arabian trade of a particular form of incense, frankincense. Frankincense is described to be rock hard resin (Peacock, p.1). 

Incense exists in not only its resin form, but many others such as aromatic woods, herbs, and essential oils. Different types of incense hold specific meanings, referring to cultural or religious beliefs. The functionality of incense has changed overtime and became valued for more modern purposes (i.e. functioning as an insect repellent or natural air freshener). The size and form of incense typically depict the manner it is used in. For larger forms, they’re characterized as offerings. And for smaller forms, they are typically used in daily rituals or practices (e.g. cleansing and fragrance). 

Incense is regarded as a sacred material. In Hinduism, a Bhakti (meaning devotional) is a series of practices that displays devotion through harmonial hymns for deities and offerings for deities. Among those offerings is incense, along with fruits and/or flowers. Incense is also used during the ritual, acting as a cleansing agent. The purpose of cleansing a space during practices is to allow a connection between the natural world and the Gods to form. In a less ceremonial context, incense is used during meditation, which allows focus and clarity to the mind. (Robinson & York, 2018). In short, in hinduism, incense is used for divine purposes and practice. Whether it is in a home, temple, church, or mosque, the use of incense is intentional and spiritual. It is regarded as a sacred religious artifact with the usage of it intended to cleanse, connect, and pray. 

 Along with its physical composition, incense is a sacred artifact. It possesses a rich and deep history. From its ancient trade to the role it plays in religious practices, incense at its core is intended to connect our world with the divine. Incense is a versatile material that symbolizes divination, devotion, cleanliness, and sacredness. 
